---
title: bloblang
---

<!--
     THIS FILE IS AUTOGENERATED!

     To make changes please edit the corresponding source file under internal/impl/<provider>.
-->

Executes a xref:guides:bloblang/about.adoc[Bloblang] mapping on messages.


Bloblang is a powerful language that enables a wide range of mapping, transformation and filtering tasks. For more information see xref:guides:bloblang/about.adoc[].

If your mapping is large and you'd prefer for it to live in a separate file then you can execute a mapping directly from a file with the expression `from "<path>"`, where the path must be absolute, or relative from the location that Redpanda Connect is executed from.

## Component rename

This processor was recently renamed to the xref:components:processors/mapping.adoc[`mapping` processor] in order to make the purpose of the processor more prominent. It is still valid to use the existing `bloblang` name but eventually it will be deprecated and replaced by the new name in example configs.


## Examples
<tabs>
<tab title="Example 0">
	
Given JSON documents containing an array of fans:

```json
{
  "id":"foo",
  "description":"a show about foo",
  "fans":[
    {"name":"bev","obsession":0.57},
    {"name":"grace","obsession":0.21},
    {"name":"ali","obsession":0.89},
    {"name":"vic","obsession":0.43}
  ]
}
```

We can reduce the fans to only those with an obsession score above 0.5, giving us:

```json
{
  "id":"foo",
  "description":"a show about foo",
  "fans":[
    {"name":"bev","obsession":0.57},
    {"name":"ali","obsession":0.89}
  ]
}
```

With the following config:
	<code-block lang="yaml">
		
pipeline:
  processors:
  - bloblang: |
      root = this
      root.fans = this.fans.filter(fan -> fan.obsession > 0.5)

	</code-block>
</tab>
<tab title="Example 1">
	
When receiving JSON documents of the form:

```json
{
  "locations": [
    {"name": "Seattle", "state": "WA"},
    {"name": "New York", "state": "NY"},
    {"name": "Bellevue", "state": "WA"},
    {"name": "Olympia", "state": "WA"}
  ]
}
```

We could collapse the location names from the state of Washington into a field `Cities`:

```json
{"Cities": "Bellevue, Olympia, Seattle"}
```

With the following config:
	<code-block lang="yaml">
		
pipeline:
  processors:
    - bloblang: |
        root.Cities = this.locations.
                        filter(loc -> loc.state == "WA").
                        map_each(loc -> loc.name).
                        sort().join(", ")

	</code-block>
</tab>

</tabs>


== Error handling

Bloblang mappings can fail, in which case the message remains unchanged, errors are logged, and the message is flagged as having failed, allowing you to use
xref:configuration:error_handling.adoc[standard processor error handling patterns].

However, Bloblang itself also provides powerful ways of ensuring your mappings do not fail by specifying desired fallback behavior, which you can read about in xref:guides:bloblang/about#error-handling.adoc[Error handling].
