---
title: Metrics
sidebar:
    order: 3
---
Wombat emits lots of metrics in order to expose how components configured within your pipeline are behaving. You can
configure exactly where these metrics end up with the config field `metrics`, which describes a metrics format and
destination. For example, if you wished to push them via the StatsD protocol you could use this configuration:

```yaml
metrics:
  statsd:
    address: localhost:8125
    flush_period: 100ms
```

The default metrics configuration is to expose Prometheus metrics on the [service-wide HTTP endpoint](../http)at the
endpoints `/metrics` and `/stats`.

### Timings

It's worth noting that timing metrics within Wombat are measured in nanoseconds and are therefore named with a `_ns`
suffix. However, some exporters do not support this level of precision and are downgraded, or have the unit converted
for convenience. In these cases the exporter documentation outlines the conversion and why it is made.

## Metric Names

Each major Wombat component type emits one or more metrics with the name prefixed by the type. These metrics are
intended to provide an overview of behaviour, performance and health. Some specific component implementations may
provide their own unique metrics on top of these standardised ones, these extra metrics can be found listed on their
respective documentation pages.

## Metric Labels

The standard metric names are unique to the component type, but a wombat config may consist of any number of component
instantiations. In order to provide a metrics series that is unique for each instantiation Wombat adds labels (or tags)
that uniquely identify the instantiation. These labels are as follows:

### `path`

The `path` label contains a string representation of the position of a component instantiation within a config in a
format that would locate it within a Bloblang mapping, beginning at `root`. This path is a best attempt and may not
exactly represent the source component position in all cases and is intended to be used for assisting observability
only.

This is the highest cardinality label since paths will change as configs are updated and expanded. It is therefore worth
removing this label with a [mapping](#metric-mapping) in cases where you wish to restrict the number of unique metric
series.

### `label`

The `label` label contains the unique label configured for a component emitting the metric series, or is empty for
components that do not have a configured label. This is the most useful label for uniquely identifying a series for a
component.

### `stream`

The `stream` label is present in a metric series emitted from a stream config executed when Wombat is running
in [streams mode](/pipelines/deploy/streams), and is populated with the stream name.

## Example

The following Wombat configuration:

```yaml
input:
  label: foo
  http_server: { }

pipeline:
  processors:
    - mapping: |
        root.message = this
        root.meta.link_count = this.links.length()
        root.user.age = this.user.age.number()

output:
  label: bar
  stdout: { }

metrics:
  prometheus: { }
```

Would produce the following metrics series:

```text
input_latency_ns{label="foo",path="root.input"}
input_received{endpoint="post",label="foo",path="root.input"}
input_received{endpoint="websocket",label="foo",path="root.input"}

processor_batch_received{label="",path="root.pipeline.processors.0"}
processor_batch_sent{label="",path="root.pipeline.processors.0"}
processor_error{label="",path="root.pipeline.processors.0"}
processor_latency_ns{label="",path="root.pipeline.processors.0"}
processor_received{label="",path="root.pipeline.processors.0"}
processor_sent{label="",path="root.pipeline.processors.0"}

output_batch_sent{label="bar",path="root.output"}
output_connection_failed{label="bar",path="root.output"}
output_connection_lost{label="bar",path="root.output"}
output_connection_up{label="bar",path="root.output"}
output_error{label="bar",path="root.output"}
output_latency_ns{label="bar",path="root.output"}
output_sent{label="bar",path="root.output"}
```

## Metric Mapping

Since Wombat emits a large variety of metrics it is often useful to restrict or modify the metrics that are emitted.
This can be done using the [Bloblang mapping language](/bloblang) in the field `metrics.mapping`. This is a mapping
executed for each metric that is registered within the Wombat service and allows you to delete an entire series, modify
the series name and delete or modify individual labels.

Within the mapping the input document (referenced by the keyword `this`) is a string value containing the metric name,
and the resulting document (referenced by the keyword `root`) must be a string value containing the resulting name. As
is standard in Bloblang mappings, if the value of `root` is not assigned within the mapping then the metric name remains
unchanged. If the value of `root` is `deleted()` then the metric series is dropped.

Labels can be referenced as metadata values with the function `meta`, where if the label does not exist in the series
being mapped the value `null` is returned. Labels can be changed by using meta assignments, and can be assigned
`deleted()` in order to remove them.

For example, the following mapping removes all but the `label` label entirely, which reduces the cardinality of each
series. It also renames the `label` (for some reason) so that labels containing meows now contain woofs. Finally, the
mapping restricts the metrics emitted to only three series; one for the input count, one for processor errors, and one
for the output count, it does this by looking up metric names in a static array of allowed names, and if not present the
`root` is assigned `deleted()`:

```yaml
metrics:
  mapping: |
    # Delete all pre-existing labels
    meta = deleted()

    # Re-add the `label` label with meows replaced with woofs
    meta label = metadata("label").replace("meow", "woof")

    # Delete all metric series that aren't in our list
    root = if ![
      "input_received",
      "processor_error",
      "output_sent",
    ].contains(this) { deleted() }

  prometheus:
    use_histogram_timing: false
```